in this edition of impact we explore the
controversial life of one of America's
most famous fashion icons around
nineteen fifty co-founder of Mattel he's
observing her eight or nine-year-old
daughter playing with movie star paper
dolls which thought would it be great to
three-dimensional eyes this in turn it
into a toy party but first we take a
look at a recently imported Japanese
fashion trend that is gaining a fan base
in the u.s. just become so popular that
I can go to things like will be the tea
parties or Leda meetups or
internationally today you just see
random people on the street and just by
that alone you can tell
welcome to impact I'm harmony April
fashion can be more than just the
clothes you wear it can be a culture it
can be controversial it can even be a
lifestyle all right look at again for
you
whose injuries cat steel is a waitress
at the royalty cafe and art space in
culver city california the first maid
cafe in America maid cafes originated in
Tokyo where the waitresses cartoonish
costumes attract fans of Japanese
animation known as anime the idea is for
the maze to look like anime mates so as
you can see I have my big crazy anime
pigtails in and some of the girls also
have you know some more cartoony you
know features that they where would
their costume but tonight the royalty is
hosting a different type of Japan Oh
files lolitas Lolita started in Japan in
the 1970s as a fashion featuring
victorian style ruffled skirts with
petticoats and puffed sleeves but after
being adopted by mana a popular
cross-dressing Japanese musician lolita
branched out the idea is to capture some
sort of innocence or sweetness about you
there's many different types of lolita
it's still based very much in the baby
doll victorian alice wonderland look but
there is gothic lolita which as the name
implies you know black lots of you know
crosses lots of gothic imagery there
sweet lolita which is very raver
candy-inspired a very pastel palette
while for some who consider themselves
lolita it's simply a fashion for others
it's become a lifestyle fans of lolita
hold tea parties and other social events
tonight's event is zero cocoa rendezvous
a masquerade ball Michelle win is the
editor-at-large of the american gothic
and lolita bible for the masquerade she
stressed not as a lolita but in a
costume of her own creation she says the
Lolena movement is gaining momentum five
years ago you there's no way I'd walk on
the street and see some like girl who I
didn't know where
fashion there's no way I knew everybody
who did it because it was a small small
community and you know now it's become
so popular that I can go to meet up you
know we live in Los Angeles oh it's it's
a little bigger than most towns but you
know when I go to things like Willie the
tea parties or lead a meetup you just
see random people on the street in this
and just by that alone you can tell the
gothic and lolita bible is a japanese
magazine that teaches girls how to dress
accessorize and act lolita when
published the first volume of the
american version in February of 2008 to
help Americans who were interested in
Lolita but had difficulty finding
information in English I main objective
for starting the English Bible is that
anybody who had an interest in it could
read up about it in English and it was
just it's so accessible now because of
that I'm really happy about more
Americans may be wearing Lolita styles
but Danielle Hill a sweet lolita says
that her look confused as many people
they're like uh what are you like Little
Bo key for something and and most the
time unlike other looks I've had people
don't even ask questions they just sort
of a look at you lolita has also become
associated with collectible japanese
ball jointed dolls these dolls were
created independently of the lolita
movement but due to their popularity
within the lolita community they now
often come dressed in Lolita fashions
there's many different types of dolls
that are popular with the community and
the clothing is very detailed usually
based upon on lolita designer brands
they're very expensive and we have a lot
of collectors come in here specifically
to have you know parties with their
dolls Carly Breslin who is a wall lolita
or traditional Japanese lolita says that
dressing like her doll is part of the
fun we all want to look pretty like our
little doll so I think it's kind of like
if they can look so cute I can look back
you breslin also says that for her
Lolita is a rejection of modern American
youth culture what Lolita is if I
personally feel at the backlash of all
these hot pants and the britney spears
culture it's getting back to like we
make our own clothes we make our own
food we like to so we like to dance we
like the chat we like to send letters
it's not like let's go out get drunk
it's like a nightclub you know it's more
like more social getting back to Berlin
Herman almost you know being independent
in your own body fashion while most
lolitas are teenagers or women in their
early 20s the culture attracts fans of
all ages julianne butcher who is dressed
for the row coco rendezvous at the new
ristic rat lolita says she thinks
escapism is part of the appeal and now
we're living in this horrible economic
time I guess it's just a sense of
dressing up the romantic notion of
sitting around eating bonbons and you
know what would that really be like but
for many lolitas it's just a great
excuse to play dress up halloween is my
absolute favorite holiday and just the
idea that halloween can kind of be a
lifestyle I've always really liked
dressing up you're in your little shiny
shoes and your will fairly dress and
it's just I don't know it makes me happy